
Sword Kladenets - a fabulous magic sword in some Old Russian fairy tales.
Dyrnwyn - Sword of Rhydderch Hael in Welsh legend; When drawn, it blazed with fire; if drawn by a worthy man, the fire would help him in his cause, but its fire would burn the man who drew it for an unworthy purpose.
Hrunting - Beowulf's magical swords.
Shamshire Zomorrodnegar - Legendary Persian sword.
Skofnung - sword of legendary Danish king Hrólf Kraki.
Thunderbolt - as wielded by various mythological deities such as Zeus.
Vajra - A composite weapon made from the bones of a willing sage used by Indra.
Taming Sari - a kris owned by mythical Malay warrior Hang Tuah. It possesses supernatural powers, bestowing invincibility to its wielder. According to one story, Hang Tuah fought the Majapahit warrior who owned the keris to a standstill, unable to defeat him. Later, after using trickery to switch weapons, Hang Tuah won easily.
Gan Jiang and Mo Ye - Legendary Chinese twin swords named after their creators.

Dainsleif - King Hogni's sword
Gram - Sword of the hero Sigurd from Norse mythology, also known as Nothung in the Ring cycle
Gungnir - Odin's spear.
Hrotti - Part of the treasure of the dragon Fafnir.
Laevateinn - A weapon mentioned in Fjolsvinnsmal. Wielded by the monster, Surt.
Mjolnir - The hammer of Thor.
Tyrfing - A sword made by dwarves in the Elder Edda.


Fragarach - Sword of the god of the seas Manannan mac Lir and later Lugh in Irish legend; it was said to be a weapon that no armour could stop.
Caladbolg - Two-handed sword of Fergus mac Róich in Irish legend; said to make a circle like an arc of rainbow when swung, and to have the power to cleave the tops from the hills.
Claiomh Solais - Sword of Nuada the king of the gods in Irish mythology; In legend, the sword glowed with the light of the sun and was irresistible in battle, having the power to cut his enemies in half.
Gae Bulg - Spear of Cúchulainn; made from the bones of a sea monster.
Spear of Lugh - Spear of Lugh, the champion of the gods in Irish Mythology.
Gae Buide and Gae Derg - Spears of Diarmuid Ua Duibhne, given to him by Aengus, which could inflict wounds that none can recover from.


Excalibur - King Arthur's magical warsword.
Clarent - King Arthur's sword of peace. Also sometimes known as the sword Mordred stole and later used to kill King Arthur. Sometimes called the Coward's Blade.
Carnwennan - King Arthur's dagger, sometimes described to shroud the user in shadow.
Rhongomiant - King Arthur's Spear


Almace - The sword of Archbishop Turpin.
Durendal - Indestructible sword of Roland.
Hauteclere - The sword of Oliver.
Joyeuse - Charlemagne's personal sword.


Ame-no-nuboko - Japanese halberd which formed the first island.
Kusanagi - Legendary Japanese sword.
Tonbogiri - one of three legendary spears created by the famed swordsmith Masazane.


Tizona - the sword of El Cid, it frightens unworthy opponents, as shown in the heroic poem Cantar de Mio Cid.
Colada - the other sword of El Cid, as Tizona its power depends on the warrior that wields it.
The lance of Olyndicus - the celtiberians' war chief who fought against Rome. According to Florus, he wielded a silver lance that was sent to him by the gods from the sky.

Callandor - The sword that is not a sword, a powerful sa'angreal in Robert Jordan's Wheel of Time series.
Charon's Claw - Powerful sword from the Forgotten Realms series.
The Darksword - Margaret Weis and Tracy Hickman's Darksword trilogy.
Grayswandir - The magic sword wielded by Corwin in The Chronicles of Amber by Roger Zelazny. Sister blade of Werewindle.
Nehima - Lirael and Abhorsen by Garth Nix.
Ruyi Jingu Bang - A magical staff wielded by Sun Wukong in Journey to the West.
Sword of Gryffindor - In the Harry Potter series, a that was previously owned by Godric Gryffindor. Has the power to reveal itself to any worthy Gryffindor student in a time of need. In the novels, reveals itself to Harry and Neville Longbottom.
Sword of Martin - Weapon from the Redwall series of novels by Brian Jacques. Forged from a fallen star by a badger lord. It appears to be unbreakable.
The Sword of Shannara - The sword enchanted by the druids to reveal truth in Terry Brooks novels.
The Sword of Truth - The sword wielded by the Seeker of Truth in the Terry Goodkind novels.
Werewindle - The magic sword wielded by Brand in The Chronicles of Amber by Roger Zelazny. Sister blade of Grayswandir.



Anglachel - One of the two swords forged by Eöl the Dark Elf out of a black iron meteorite. It is said to be able to cleave any iron from within the earth. Anglachel appears to be a sentient sword that speaks on occasion and has some will of its own.
Glamdring, Orcrist and Sting - High-Elven swords; glow with a blue or white flame when Orcs are near.
Morgul-blade - Magical poisoned dagger wielded by Nazgûl.
Caudimordax - This sword cannot be sheathed when a dragon comes within five miles of its bearer's presence.
Anduril/Narsil - The sword of Elendil used to cut the One Ring from Sauron (Narsil) reforged several ages later by Elrond (Andúril); the reforging of the shards was foretold as a sign of the coming of the true King of Gondor.
Aiglos - The spear with which the Elven king Gil-galad went to war.


Mournblade - An enchanted blade from Michael Moorcock's Elric stories, twin to Stormbringer.
Kanajana - The sword of Erekose.
The Runestaff - A magical staff in Moorcock's Dorian Hawkmoon novels which preserves the Cosmic Balance.
Stormbringer - One of the two vampiric black runeswords inherited by the Melnibonean kings. Wielded by Elric of Melnibone.
The Sword of the Dawn - A magical blade in Moorcock's Dorian Hawkmoon novels.


Dagger of Time - Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time
Master Sword - Legend of Zelda series
Soul Reaver - Legacy of Kain series
Soul Calibur and Soul Edge - Soul series
Keyblade - Kingdom Hearts series
Crystalis - Crystalis. The titular sword is formed from four elemental blades.
Frostmourne - runeswords of Warcraft III and World of Warcraft.
Blades of Chaos - God of War. These broad-bladed swords are seared into the flesh of the protagonist, Kratos, with a pair of chains wrapped his arms. This allows him to perform whip-like maneuvers.

Magdaer - Guild Wars Prophecies. The sword of King Adelbern which he used to trigger the Foefire.
Sohothin - Guild Wars Prophecies. The sister sword of Magdaer, wielded by Prince Rurik, son of Adelbern.
Sol blade - Golden Sun (series) The Sol Blade is a Long Sword-class Artifact weapon found in Golden Sun: The Lost Age and Golden Sun: Dark Dawn. It is the "ultimate weapon" of each game it appears in.
Akujiki - Shinobi. A cursed sword wielded by protagonist Hotsuma that drains the soul of the wielder unless it is covered in the fresh blood of its victims.

Sword of Omens - ThunderCats. Wielded by the hero Lion-O, the magical Eye of Thundera is embedded in its hilt.


Green Destiny - Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon a powerful jian.[citation needed]
Chrysaor - Edmund Spenser's The Faerie Queene
Green Dragon Crescent Blade - Exceptionally heavy guandao wielded by Guan Yu in the Romance of the Three Kingdoms; forged with the blood of a green dragon.
